hey this is pressure Walker reminding
you to mind your decisions
hey viral math meme claims that 9 plus
10 is equal to 21 this is clearly not
true in the decimal base 10 system but
what if the numbers on the left were in
base X and the number on the right was
in base y could you find values of x and
y that make this equation true pause the
video if you'd like to give it a try and
when you're ready keep watching to learn
the solution
[Music]
before I get to the answer I want to go
over an important part of mathematical
history so bear with me as I read
Wikipedia the most commonly used system
of numerals is the hindu-arabic numeral
system - Indian mathematicians are
credited with developing it Aria but of
Co supera developed the place value
notation in the 5th century and a
century later Brahma Gupta introduced
the symbol for zero the numeral system
and the zero concept developed by the
Hindus in India slowly spread to other
surrounding countries due to their
commercial and military activities with
India the Arabs adopted and modified it
even today the Arabs called the numerals
which they use rack'em I'll hang or the
Hindu numeral system the Arabs
translated Hindu texts a numerology and
spread them to the Western world do
their trade links with them the Western
world modified them and called them the
Arabic numerals as they learned them
from the Arabs hence the current Western
numeral system is the modified version
of the Hindu numeral system developed in
India so how did the idea spread to
Europe it was in part because of a book
Fibonacci wrote Libra baki
in 1202 he called it the motifs in dorm
or the method of the Indians until this
time Europe use Roman numerals making
modern mathematics almost impossible the
book thus made an important contribution
to the spread of decimal numerals the
spread of the hindu-arabic system
however as all writes was a
long-drawn-out taking many more
centuries to spread widely and did not
become complete until the later part of
the sixteenth century
accelerating dramatically only in the
1500s with the advent of printing this
is tremendous Fibonacci shared one of
the most important discoveries in
mathematics and yet it took hundreds of
years to spread through Europe I'd like
to point this out whenever people think
the base-10 system is just natural and
something we would have developed from
ten fingers it's not something so
obvious and we should credit the
mathematicians who discovered it and
appreciate its entire history
so now let's solve our problem
each of the numbers on the left is in
base X 9 in base X will be equal to 9 we
now convert 1-0 in base X this expands
to be 1x or just X we now expand to 1 in
base y this will be 2y plus 1 we now
simplify this equation we subtract 1
from both sides and then we divide by 2
and we further simplify so we have the
equation y is equal to 4 plus x over 2
but not all values of x and y will work
remember we're dealing with number bases
and standard number bases are positive
integers furthermore we have x over 2 in
order that Y is an integer we're going
to need X to be a positive even number
there's one more consideration we have 9
in base X typically we would use the
digit 9 if our base is at least 10 we
wouldn't use it if our base is 9 or less
so we now consider possible values of x
and y the smallest value of x could be
10 which would mean Y is equal to 9 and
this is a true equation we now increment
by 2 12 and 10 will be another valid
solution we can then increment X by 2
again and we get another value for y and
we can continue this process
indefinitely as long as we have x and y
is equal to 4 plus x over 2 this will be
a valid solution so at first glance 9
plus 10 is equal to 21 is just a false
equation and there's no way that you can
correct it but if we think about number
bases they're actually an infinite
number of ways that we can make this
equation true remarkable thanks for
watching and for making mind your
decisions one of the best channels on
YouTube thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]
you